Add docs on wallets and generating keys (#8905)
solana-labs/solana: docs/src/cli/choose-a-wallet.md

# Choose a Wallet

Keypairs are stored in *wallets* and wallets come in many forms. A wallet might

> be a directory on your computer's file system, a piece of paper, or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be a directory in your computer's file system, a piece of paper, or a
```

specialized device called a *hardware wallet*. Some wallets are easier to use
than others.  Some are more secure than others. In this section, we'll compare
and contrast different types of wallets and help you choose the wallet that
best fits your needs.

## File System Wallet

A *file system wallet*, aka an FS wallet, is a directory in your computer's
file system. Each file in the directory holds a keypair.

### FS Wallet Security

> An FS wallet is the most convenient and least secure form of wallets. It is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An FS wallet is the most convenient and least secure form of wallet. It is
```

convenient because the keypair is stored in a simple file. You can generate as
many keys as you'd like and trivially back them up by copying the files. If you
are the only user of your computer and you are confident it is free of malware,
an FS wallet is a fine solution for small amounts of cryptocurrency. If,
however, your computer contains malware and is connected to the Internet, that
malware may upload your keys and use them to take your tokens. Likewise,
because the keypairs are stored on your computer as files, a skilled hacker
with physical access to your computer may be able to access it. Using an
encrypted hard drive, such as FileVault on MacOS, minimizes that risk.

> 

Reviewer 2: This section should be explicit that the keys are stored unencrypted by default

## Paper Wallet

A *paper wallet* is a collection of *seed phrases* written on paper. A seed
phrase is some number of words (typically 12 or 24) that can be used to
regenerate a keypair on demand.

### Paper Wallet Security

In terms of convenience versus security, a paper wallet sits at the opposite

> side of the spectrum from an FS wallet. It is is terribly inconvenient to use,

Reviewer 2: is is

but offers excellent security. That high security is further amplified when
paper wallets are used in conjunction with [offline
signing](../offline-signing). Custody services such as [Coinbase

> Custody](https://custody.coinbase.com/) use this combination.  Paper wallets

Reviewer: I believe the line wraps will break these 2 hyperlinks when the markdown is rendered.

Author: Works in mdbook.  I'll commit and see what happens.  Happy to have more ammo to point at gitbook.

and custody services are an excellent way to secure a large number of tokens
for a long period of time.

## Hardware Wallet

A hardware wallet is a small handheld device that stores keypairs and provides
some interface for signing transactions.

### Hardware Wallet Security

A hardware wallet, such as the [Ledger hardware

> wallet](https://www.ledger.com/), offers a great blend of security and

Reviewer: Same hyperlink issue

convenience for cryptocurrencies. It effectively automates the process of
offline signing while retaining nearly all the convenience of an FS wallet.
Compared to offline signing with paper wallets, which we regard as highly

> secure, some security concerns with hardware wallets:

Reviewer 2: Is there some resource we can link to for the security risks/recommendations?  Seems like content better maintained by someone in that domain

> secure, some security concerns with hardware wallets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast to offline signing with paper wallets, which we regard as highly
secure, offline signing with hardware wallets presents some security concerns:
```

* Keys could be leaked by a malicious app on the hardware wallet
* Keys could be stolen by a malicious client via a bug in the hardware wallet's
  operating system
* Keys could be read from storage if hardware wallet is lost or stolen

To keep your hardware wallet tokens safe, we suggest:

* Only install apps using the vendor's app manager

> * Keep the hardware wallet's firmware up-to-date

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Keep the hardware wallet's firmware up to date
```

> * Put keys for large amounts of tokens into its own hardware wallet. Store it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Put keys for large amounts of tokens into their own hardware wallets. Store
```

  in a secure location.

> 

Reviewer 2: It might make sense to state that Ledger is the only HW wallet that we have support for in the pipeline

Author: It's mentioned in the hardware wallets doc. I don't want to duplicate that list, but I'll give some thought to structuring things so that you see it earlier.

## Which Wallet is Best?

Different people will have different needs, but if you are still unsure what's
best for you after reading the comparisons above, go with a [Ledger Nano
S](https://shop.ledger.com/products/ledger-nano-s). The [Nano S is

> well-integrated into Solana's tool suite](../remote-wallet/ledger) and offers

Reviewer: Same hyperlink issue

> an outstanding blend of security and conveinence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an outstanding blend of security and convenience.
```
